# From Your Teacher

This is a note from me, Eric Sowell, the teacher of this course. I figured I would write this to let you know a little bit about me, just in case you wanted to know.

I'm a self-taught programmer. It all started during my master's degree. I was a departmental tutor for the New Testament department at [DTS](http://www.dts.edu/), where my main task was helping people with their Greek. One thing in particular that I focused on was writing new materials for doing sentence diagramming in Greek (yes, I have always lived an exciting life). At one point I decided to take it a step further than written guides and make an instructional CD. Since I knew nothing about programming, I enlisted the help of a couple friends and we created and sold an instructional CD using Authorware and Flash. On my side it was barely programming but it got me started.

Then my last semester came. I only have a few hours of course work but after that needed to get a job, so I decided that I would try learning how to program and see if I could make a go at that. So at the beginning of 2003 I began pouring all my free time into learning. I started with the C++ programming language and that was too difficult for me to start with, so at the advice of a friend I decided to try C#. I bought a copy of Sam's *Teach Yourself C# in 21 Days* and started teaching myself. After a few months of doing almost nothing other than learning to code, I was able to learn enough about web and Windows programming in C# and enough about database programming to be productive. In June of that year I got my first full-time gig! And so began a very enjoyable career for me.

Those first few months were very difficult. Sometimes they didn't feel that way because I enjoyed the process of learning all that stuff but it was an all-consuming task for months on end. Fortunately for me, I had several developer friends to talk to when I got stuck. They really helped a lot. But it was mostly just a lot of hard work and study.

I stayed at that job for a number of months but eventually moved on. The next two jobs were pretty short for me as well (1.5 and 1 year respectively) but then I went to work for Match.com (yes, the dating website) and stayed there for almost ten years. Working there was great. I began as a mid-level engineer, became a senior, then a lead engineer, then manager, and finally architect. While I was there I got to work on websites, APIs, databases, backend services, and mobile applications. I got to work on large, old projects and got to start new ones.

Also in the last seven years or so I've gotten pretty involved in teaching in the local community. I've spoken at a number of local technology groups and conferences. A few years ago I even got the chance to [write a technical book](http://www.amazon.com/Mobile-ASP-NET-MVC-Eric-Sowell/dp/1430250569/ref=sr_1_1). At work I've also been involved in mentoring and teaching other developers. I do all of this because I really do enjoy teaching and talking to people about technology and helping them further their career.

That's why I'm working at the Iron Yard and why I am excited about teaching this course. Trying to change careers is difficult. And even though teaching yourself how to program *is* possible all by yourself (I did it), it takes an incredible amount of work and passion to pull it off. So you can go it alone but these kinds of journeys are best made with help. And that's what I am here to do.

So that's a little bit about me. If you want to know more, [I have a blog](http://ericsowell.com/blog) and [do a decent bit of tweeting](https://twitter.com/mallioch). If you want to know more about the course, you can also email me at eric.sowell@theironyard.com.
